- [Instructor] Some folks might be fans of Query by Example.
It's a popular mechanism with visual querying facilities
like Microsoft Access database user interface.
Advantages of Query by Example?
It's a user-friendly alternative to SQL,
lookup objects similar to other objects,
it's independent of an underlying datastore.
You might want to use it,
if you have frequently refactored code,
but there are limitations around nested property constraints
and string matching.
Spring Data supports Query by Example
with the QueryByExampleExecutor.
In our exercise files, DepartmentRepository extends
from JpaRepository which also extends
from QueryByExampleExecutor.
QueryByExampleExecutor repositories declare
all these methods which take an example attribute.
So how do we instantiate an example class?
One way to instantiate an example class is
with just a probe attribute.
Probe is an object of type of entity we are looking up,
in this case department.
We set the attributes in department that we need to match.
So to find the department with the name humanities,
we constructed a department object
with only the department name set.
The rest of the attributes are null.
To find all departments whose chair has the first name
of John, we constructed a department object
where the name is null, set the first name attribute
of the chairperson to John and the last name attribute
of the chairperson to null.
The other way to instantiate an example is
to provide an ExampleMatcher with the probe
to further refine the search.
In this example we have case-insensitive of search
on all departments ending with a name sciences.
ExampleMatcher methods follow the builder pattern
so you can just keep adding as many restrictions as needed.
The restrictions here are withIgnoreCase
and withStringMathcer.ending.
So let's run these queryByExample examples.
So I have my queryByExample method in the QueryDemos class.
And we'll step through these queries.
So first we're going to find all the department
with the name humanities and here is our probe.
And this is the example of,
so there is our department with the name humanities.
Now find department with the first name
of the chair is John.
So we're constructing a new department.
So we have the name as null, construct a new staff object
which contains a new person object and have the first name
as John the last name as null.
There are two departments whose has a chair
with the first name of John.
And it happens to be the same guy.
John Jones as the chair of humanities and social sciences.
Now we're going to find all departments
with the name ending in lower case sciences
and have that search be case-insensitive.
So we have a new department.
The name is sciences with the lower case S
and the chair part is null and
then we have these restrictions added onto it.
And then print those out to the screen.
And so we get back department natural sciences
and social sciences.